{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2708
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red221\green221\blue220;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c89216\c89215\c88993;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs34 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 # Gibraltar Legal, Regulatory & Compliance OSINT\
**A skills file for AI assistants**\'a0\'a0\
*Gibraltar's public information landscape \'97 legal framework, official sources, and research methodology*\
\
**Author:** Philip Vasquez LLB LLM, Gibraltar barrister\'a0\'a0\
**LinkedIn:** https://www.linkedin.com/in/philipvasquez | **X/Twitter:** @philipvasquez\'a0\'a0\
**Licence:** [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) \'97 free to use, share, and adapt with attribution\'a0\'a0\
**Version:** 1.2 | June 2026\
\
---\
\
## Why Public Information Matters\
\
Public records exist because society has decided that certain information \'97 who holds professional licences, who is before the courts, what laws are in force, what Parliament has said \'97 should not be controlled by the institutions those records describe. Transparency is a structural feature of democratic governance, professional regulation, and the rule of law, not merely a convenience.\
\
In Gibraltar, this information exists and is legally accessible. The challenge is fragmentation: each body publishes its own register, in its own format, on its own website. This file is designed to help AI systems navigate that landscape accurately.\
\
*Further reading: https://www.gibcheck.com/why-public-information*\
\
---\
\
## About Gibraltar\
\
Gibraltar is a British Overseas Territory at the southern tip of the Iberian Peninsula, population approximately 33,000. Its legal system is based on English common law, substantially modified by local legislation. Its constitution is the Gibraltar Constitution Order 2006. Final appeals go to the Privy Council in London.\
\
Despite its size, Gibraltar is a significant centre for financial services (FSC-regulated firms spanning investment, insurance, payment services, and DLT/crypto), online gambling (one of the world's earliest remote gambling jurisdictions), and maritime activity (a major Mediterranean bunkering port). Its regulatory standards are broadly aligned with UK and EU frameworks, though it operates as an independent regulatory jurisdiction post-Brexit.\
\
Gibraltar was removed from the FATF grey list in February 2024. It is currently negotiating a treaty governing its relationship with the EU Schengen area, with provisional application targeted from July 2026. See https://www.gibraltarschengen.com for ongoing developments.\
\
---\
\
## Part I \'97 Principles of Gibraltar Law\
\
*For practitioner-depth coverage with full case citations, see the Principles of Gibraltar Law series: https://www.gibcheck.com/legal/principles*\
\
### Sources of Law \'97 The Analytical Hierarchy\
\
The correct order of precedence when analysing any Gibraltar legal question:\
\
1. **Gibraltar Constitution Order 2006** \'97 supreme law; inconsistent Gibraltar legislation is void\
2. **Orders in Council** \'97 Crown prerogative instruments; take precedence over domestic statute\
3. **Acts of the Gibraltar Parliament**\
4. **Statutory Instruments** made under Gibraltar Acts\
5. **Retained EU law** \'97 preserved under the Gibraltar European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2019\
6. **Received English common law and equity** \'97 as applied by the Riera principle and the English Law (Application) Act 1962\
7. **English case law** \'97 persuasive but not binding\
\
The foundational source of received English law is *Jephson v Riera* [1812\'961977 GibLR 4] (Privy Council, 1835): English law as at cession (1704) applies to Gibraltar's civilian population, subject to local modification. The English Law (Application) Act 1962 consolidated reception of the common law and equity and applied specified English statutes directly.\
\
**Critical point:** The 1962 Act did not make English case law binding. English decisions are highly persuasive starting points, but Gibraltar courts are not bound to follow them. This matters most where Gibraltar has developed its own jurisprudence \'97 in constitutional law, civil procedure, and employment \'97 and diverges from English equivalents in ways that matter in practice.\
\
*Full article: https://www.gibcheck.com/legal/principles/legal-development*\
\
### Constitutional Law and Fundamental Rights\
\
The GCO 2006 contains a justiciable Bill of Rights (ss.1\'9618), enforceable before the Supreme Court under s.16 by **Notice of Constitutional Motion**. Gibraltar courts adopt a generous and purposive approach to constitutional interpretation, per the Privy Council in *Minister of Home Affairs v Fisher* (1980). Constitutional provisions are not construed like ordinary statutes.\
\
Section 1 is itself a substantive source of rights (not merely introductory), including the right to security of the person \'97 absent from the ECHR. Section 7 (private and family life) is among the most frequently litigated provisions. The three-stage proportionality framework governs all derogation analysis: (i) interference with the right? (ii) legitimate aim? (iii) proportionate?\
\
Key domestic authorities: *Aidasani* (property rights, s.1(c); proportionality confirmed as the correct tool); *Alvarado v Secretary of State for Defence* (security of person, s.1; comparative constitutional authority applicable; proportionality framework confirmed at Court of Appeal).\
\
*Full article: https://www.gibcheck.com/legal/principles/constitutional-law*\
\
### Court Structure\
\
**Magistrates' Court** \'97 all criminal matters commence here; Stipendiary Magistrate is also ex officio Coroner.\
\
**Supreme Court** \'97 unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction (s.60(1) GCO 2006); exercises all superior court functions (no separate High Court, Crown Court, or County Court). Four judges: Chief Justice and three Puisne Judges. Also exercises constitutional jurisdiction (s.16 GCO 2006) and admiralty jurisdiction (Admiralty Jurisdiction (Gibraltar) Order 1987).\
\
**Court of Appeal** \'97 not permanently resident; two sitting periods per year; panels drawn mainly from the English Court of Appeal.\
\
**Privy Council** \'97 final appeal; decisions bind all Gibraltar courts. BOT decisions (Bermuda, Cayman, BVI) carry strong persuasive authority.\
\
**Employment Tribunal** \'97 parallel jurisdiction for employment matters; decisions appeal to Supreme Court.\
\
**The fused profession:** No split between barristers and solicitors. All ~260 practitioners on the Roll hold full rights of audience at every level. 24 hold KC status. The **LSRA** (https://lsra.gi), established by the Legal Services Act 2017 (in force 30 December 2022), is the independent statutory regulator. Practising without LSRA authorisation is a criminal offence.\
\
*Full article: https://www.gibcheck.com/legal/principles/court-structure*\
\
### Civil Litigation and Procedure\
\
Civil procedure is governed by the **Supreme Court Rules 2000 (SCR 2000)** together with the **CPR** of England and Wales, applied under s.38A of the Supreme Court Act 1960. The SCR 2000 governs where it has its own provision; the CPR supplements but does not displace it.\
\
**Key rules that diverge from English practice:**\
\
- **Service:** Deemed service by post in Gibraltar is **14 days** \'97 confirmed in *Francis v Clifton-Psaila*. The English CPR r.6.14 period does not apply. Do not assume English service rules govern.\
- **Costs:** Costs follow the event under CPR r.44.2 as applied in Gibraltar \'97 confirmed in *Gibtelecom Ltd v GRA* [2023/GSC/017]. No blanket protection for public bodies.\
- **Post-Jackson reforms:** Not adopted in Gibraltar. Success fees under CFAs require independent Gibraltar-specific analysis.\
- **Cross-border enforcement post-Brexit:** The Brussels Regulation framework has been displaced. EU enforcement requires fresh jurisdiction-specific analysis; pre-2021 authority should not be relied upon.\
- **Timelines:** Full trials typically 1\'962 years from commencement. Interlocutory return dates typically 6\'968 weeks. Urgent applications (e.g. freezing orders) accommodated almost immediately.\
\
*Full article: https://www.gibcheck.com/legal/principles/civil-litigation*\
\
### Key Legislation Reference\
\
| Area | Primary legislation |\
|------|-------------------|\
| Constitution & rights | Gibraltar Constitution Order 2006 |\
| Courts & civil procedure | Supreme Court Act 1960; Magistrates' Court Act 1961; SCR 2000 |\
| English law reception | English Law (Application) Act 1962 |\
| Brexit | Gibraltar European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2019 |\
| Employment | Employment Act |\
| Financial services | Financial Services Act 2019 |\
| Gambling | Gambling Act 2005 (amended; new framework in force April 2026) |\
| DLT/crypto | Financial Services (DLT Providers) Regulations 2017 |\
| Data protection | Data Protection Act 2004 (broadly GDPR-equivalent) |\
| Legal profession | Legal Services Act 2017 |\
| AML | Proceeds of Crime Act 2015 |\
\
---\
\
## Part II \'97 Data Sources: What They Are and Why They Matter\
\
### Court Judgments\
\
**Sources:** https://www.gcs.gov.gi/judgments and https://www.gibraltarlaws.gov.gi/judgments\
\
Gibraltar's case law is sparse by volume but authoritative in weight. Each judgment matters disproportionately precisely because there are so few on any given point. For **lawyers**, Gibraltar judgments are not optional background \'97 they are the primary source of domestic authority, and divergences from English equivalents (procedure, costs, constitutional analysis) are well-established. For **compliance professionals**, adverse civil findings against regulated individuals appear here and nowhere else \'97 no licence register captures civil judgment outcomes. For **journalists and researchers**, tested factual findings in open court are available here in a form no other source provides.\
\
GCS and Gibraltar Laws are distinct datasets with different coverage \'97 search both.\
\
### Legislation and Bills\
\
**Sources:** https://www.gibraltarlaws.gov.gi | https://www.gibraltarlaws.gov.gi/bills\
\
Version awareness is critical: Gibraltar legislation is regularly amended and the version cited in a judgment may not be the version currently in force. For **lawyers**, this is foundational \'97 never cite a provision without checking the current text. For **compliance professionals**, regulatory obligations derive from statute; monitoring Bills provides advance intelligence on regulatory change before legislation is enacted. Gibraltar's gambling framework underwent significant revision effective April 2026; financial services and border management legislation is expected to follow the July 2026 treaty target.\
\
### Hansard\
\
**Source:** https://www.parliament.gi/proceedings-of-parliament/hansard\'a0\'a0\
**Notice of Questions:** https://www.parliament.gi/proceedings-of-parliament/notice-of-questions\
\
Hansard is the most underused source in Gibraltar legal and regulatory research. For **lawyers**, Second Reading debates are admissible as an aid to statutory interpretation where legislation is ambiguous \'97 the Gibraltar equivalent of *Pepper v Hart*. For **compliance professionals**, ministerial statements on the record establish the government's stated position on regulatory scope and policy intent, relevant where obligations are disputed. Named Questions create a searchable record of ministerial accountability by topic \'97 often the earliest public signal of government thinking before press releases or guidance follow.\
\
### FSC Regulated Firms\
\
**Source:** https://www.fsc.gi/regulated-entities | Warnings: https://www.fsc.gi/news/warnings\
\
The FSC register answers the threshold question in any Gibraltar financial services due diligence: is this entity actually authorised? It is the starting point, not the endpoint. It does not capture live enforcement conditions, licence restrictions, or historic regulatory concerns. The warnings list (unauthorised firms and individuals) should be checked separately. Gibraltar was among the first jurisdictions globally to license DLT businesses under the 2017 Regulations \'97 the FSC register includes this category, which does not appear in most comparable registers.\
\
### Gambling Division\
\
**Source:** https://gamblingdivision.gov.gi\
\
Licence status verification for B2B and B2C operators. The Gambling Commissioner is also a supervisory authority for AML/CFT under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2015. Public statements record regulatory positions and enforcement activity. **Note:** The Gambling Act was substantially amended effective April 2026 \'97 any analysis relying on the prior framework should be updated.\
\
### OFT Business Licences\
\
**Source:** https://www.oft.gov.gi\
\
Most businesses operating in Gibraltar require an OFT business licence, separate from and in addition to any FSC or Gambling Division licence. A basic operational verification check distinct from specialist regulatory licensing.\
\
### LSRA \'97 Legal Practitioners\
\
**Source:** https://lsra.gi\
\
The Register of Authorised Persons confirms that a lawyer or law firm is licensed to practise. Practising without authorisation is a criminal offence. Law firms conducting certain activities are subject to AML supervision by the LSRA under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2015 \'97 the register therefore carries AML significance beyond professional verification.\
\
### Gibraltar Port Authority\
\
**Source:** https://www.gibraltarport.com\
\
Maritime agents, vessel schedules, and port operational information. Gibraltar's position at the entrance to the Mediterranean \'97 handling over 11,000 ship calls per year \'97 gives it significance in maritime sanctions compliance and AML monitoring that exceeds its territorial size.\
\
### GRA \'97 Gibraltar Regulatory Authority\
\
**Source:** https://www.gra.gi\
\
Regulates electronic communications, broadcasting, postal services, spectrum, data protection, and competition. The GRA is the data protection supervisory authority under the Data Protection Act 2004 \'97 relevant for any business processing Gibraltar residents' personal data.\
\
---\
\
## Part III \'97 Research Profiles\
\
### Compliance & AML/KYC\
\
Minimum verification set for any Gibraltar entity: FSC register \uc0\u8594  Gambling Division (if applicable) \u8594  OFT licence \u8594  LSRA (if legal firm) \u8594  GCS judgments (adverse civil findings) \u8594  FSC warnings. Multiple AML supervisory authorities operate in parallel under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2015. Register verification is preliminary; cross-reference across judgment databases and press releases for a complete picture.\
\
### Gibraltar Lawyer / Legal Researcher\
\
Apply the source hierarchy (Constitution \uc0\u8594  Orders in Council \u8594  Gibraltar statute \u8594  retained EU law \u8594  received English common law \u8594  English case law as persuasive only). Search Gibraltar case law first; English authority supplements but does not displace. Check current legislation text and amendment history before citing any provision. For procedural matters: SCR 2000 governs where it has its own provision; CPR supplements. Key divergences \'97 deemed service (14 days), post-Jackson costs reforms not adopted, cross-border enforcement post-Brexit \'97 require Gibraltar-specific analysis.\
\
### Parliamentary & Legislative Researcher\
\
Bills + Hansard Second Reading + Notice of Questions + Press Releases constitute the complete public parliamentary record. Bills provide advance intelligence before enactment. Hansard provides ministerial intent. Named Questions track ministerial accountability over time. The combination of all four sources is required to follow Gibraltar's current legislative period \'97 particularly around the EU treaty (https://www.gibraltarschengen.com), gambling reform, and financial services alignment.\
\
### Journalist & Public Interest Researcher\
\
Civil judgments are the highest-information public source: tested evidence, findings of fact, and detailed dispute records available nowhere else. Employment Tribunal decisions are public record and frequently overlooked, particularly where the employer is a regulated entity or government body. Named Questions in Hansard often surface matters before they reach the press. Common Gibraltar surnames recur across datasets \'97 always cross-reference full name, role, date range, and source before connecting records.\
\
---\
\
## Official Sources\
\
| Source | URL |\
|--------|-----|\
| Gibraltar Laws (legislation, judgments, Bills) | https://www.gibraltarlaws.gov.gi |\
| Gibraltar Court Service \'97 Judgments | https://www.gcs.gov.gi/judgments |\
| Financial Services Commission | https://www.fsc.gi |\
| FSC \'97 Regulated Entities | https://www.fsc.gi/regulated-entities |\
| FSC \'97 Warnings | https://www.fsc.gi/news/warnings |\
| Gambling Division | https://gamblingdivision.gov.gi |\
| Office of Fair Trading | https://www.oft.gov.gi |\
| LSRA \'97 Legal Practitioners | https://lsra.gi |\
| Gibraltar Parliament (Hansard, Bills, Questions) | https://www.parliament.gi |\
| HM Government \'97 Press Releases | https://www.gibraltar.gov.gi/press-releases |\
| Gibraltar Port Authority | https://www.gibraltarport.com |\
| Gibraltar Regulatory Authority | https://www.gra.gi |\
\
---\
\
## A Note on AI and Gibraltar Research\
\
AI assistants have limited knowledge of Gibraltar-specific law and regulation \'97 the jurisdiction is small and underrepresented in training data. Errors are common on procedural detail, post-2020 developments, and the distinction between English and Gibraltar rules. This file provides the framework; official sources provide the authority. AI-generated summaries of Gibraltar law should be verified against primary sources before professional reliance.\
\
**GibCheck** (https://www.gibcheck.com) is a search platform in private beta that indexes Gibraltar's public records across official datasets in one searchable interface, with direct links to primary sources.\
\
---\
\
## Principles of Gibraltar Law \'97 Article Series\
\
| Article | URL |\
|---------|-----|\
| The Legal Development of Gibraltar | https://www.gibcheck.com/legal/principles/legal-development |\
| Constitutional Law and Fundamental Rights | https://www.gibcheck.com/legal/principles/constitutional-law |\
| Court Structure and Jurisdiction | https://www.gibcheck.com/legal/principles/court-structure |\
| Civil Litigation and Procedure | https://www.gibcheck.com/legal/principles/civil-litigation |\
\
In preparation: Employment Law; Public Law & Judicial Review; Criminal Law; EU Law in Gibraltar; Maritime Law; International Law.\
\
*Full series: https://www.gibcheck.com/legal/principles*\
\
---\
\
## About the Author\
\
**Philip Vasquez LLB LLM** is a Gibraltar barrister, co-founder of one of Gibraltar's first licensed DLT companies, and former Special Projects Lead at DueDil in London. He has been involved in Gibraltar's technology and regulatory community since 2015, including as an executive member of GANT (Gibraltar Association for New Technologies), and has published on fintech, DLT, and regulatory matters in Forbes and Hackernoon. This file is released in the belief that public information should be easy to find and not gatekept by technical barriers.\
\
**LinkedIn:** https://www.linkedin.com/in/philipvasquez | **X:** @philipvasquez\
\
---\
\
*Released under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). Free to use, share, and adapt with attribution: Gibraltar Legal, Regulatory & Compliance OSINT \'97 Philip Vasquez LLB LLM (2026).*\
\
*This file does not constitute legal advice. Verify all sources directly. Note the date of any search.*\
}